I had just earned another 5 cents on a digital work marketplace run by Amazon called Mechanical Turk.
It works like this: Employers, known as requesters, post batches of what are called Human Intelligence Tasks, or HITs, on Mechanical Turk’s website.
⚙️ Try Your Hand at Turking Throughout this story we’ll give you the chance to do HITs (Human Intelligence Tasks) that The Times has devised based on ones that novice workers like me encounter on Mechanical Turk.
Though they probably overrepresented novice turkers like me who do the lowest-paying tasks, the paper’s authors concluded that if you count time spent looking for tasks and working on tasks that came to nothing, the median turker’s hourly wage was $1.77.
It has ignored turkers’ pleas to mandate higher wages, even as it takes a cut of each transaction ranging from 17 to 50 percent; a requester posting a 1-cent HIT pays one penny to the turker and another to Amazon.
While Amazon pays all of its American employees at least $15 an hour and favors raising the minimum wage, the company declined numerous requests to comment about the pay policy for turkers or anything else regarding Mechanical Turk.
While the pay is “really low,” she said, she prefers turking to fast food for its freedom — freedom from having to wear a uniform, freedom to spend time at home with her mother, freedom to watch videos between tasks.
Ms. Milland, the turker advocate, said the biggest problem on MTurk was that requesters could decline to pay turkers by “rejecting” their submissions, but still keep the work.
“I’ve known a requester to be open about the fact that they automatically reject 10 percent of jobs to pay for Amazon fees,” she said.
Action Accept & Work This task is based on actual tasks turkers complete on the Mechanical Turk platform.
Action Accept & Work This task is based on actual tasks turkers complete on the Mechanical Turk platform.
Action Accept & Work This task is based on actual tasks turkers complete on the Mechanical Turk platform.
Action Accept & Work This task is based on actual tasks turkers complete on the Mechanical Turk platform.
Professor Ipeirotis of N.Y.U. said his research indicated that Amazon itself was one of the biggest requesters and that it posted tasks under many different aliases.
Amazon refused to say whether it posts tasks on Mechanical Turk.