Albert was the first patient in the world to receive the antibiotic — penicillin.
For the past year, Matt’s been talking to health experts to find out if we are reaching the end of the antibiotic era.
Is our fate sealed?” “First off, I don’t think people respect bacteria enough.” This is Ellen Silbergeld, one of the leading scientists studying antibiotic resistance.
No.” “The C.D.C. got our attention today with a warning about what it calls ‘nightmare bacteria.’” “These are bacteria that are resistant to most, if not all, antibiotics.” When we take antibiotics to kill infections, some bacteria survive.
So every time we take an antibiotic, we risk creating stronger, more resistant bacteria.
And stronger, more resistant bacteria means less and less effective antibiotics.
“Drug-resistant bacteria have never been able to travel the world as fast as they do today.” And that’s just part of the problem.
“You should know that about 80 percent of antibiotic production in this country goes into agriculture.” “Why on earth did somebody think putting antibiotics in agriculture was a great idea?” “We’ve said, hey, look, cram these animals together.
And you can make money off of that.” “Nobody was making the connection between feeding animals antibiotics and the fact that the food would be carrying drug-resistant bacteria.” So Ellen did a study.
And she found that poultry raised with antibiotics had nine times as much drug-resistant bacteria on it.
Organic agriculture lauds the use of animal manure.” “Unless you’re just a complete, ‘I’m a vegan, and I only hang out with vegans, and I eat sterilized vegetables,’ you know, it’s very likely that you’re picking up the same bacteria.” Resistant bacteria seep into the groundwater, fly off the back of livestock trucks and hitch a ride home on the hands of farm workers, all of which makes trying to pinpoint exactly where resistant bacteria is originating extremely difficult.
It was a dead end.” 192 people sick, 30 hospitalizations and zero access for health officials to investigate the farms.
“Drug-resistant bacteria is a huge problem.
Five days after he started recovering, the hospital ran out of the new drug, and Mr. Alexander died.
Today, we don’t have to worry about antibiotics running out.
“— want to know why a metro health department didn’t shut down a restaurant —” “It’s a very resistant bacteria —” “We really need to change the way we use antibiotics.