albert was the first patient in the world to receive the antibiotic — penicillin .
for the past year , matt 's been talking to health experts to find out if we are reaching the end of the antibiotic era .
is our fate sealed? first off , i don’t think people respect bacteria enough this is ellen silbergeld , one of the leading scientists studying antibiotic resistance .
no the cdc got our attention today with a warning about what it calls ‘nightmare bacteria’ these are bacteria that are resistant to most , if not all , antibiotics when we take antibiotics to kill infections , some bacteria survive .
so every time we take an antibiotic , we risk creating stronger , more resistant bacteria .
and stronger , more resistant bacteria means less and less effective antibiotics .
drug-resistant bacteria have never been able to travel the world as fast as they do today and that 's just part of the problem .
you should know that about ## percent of antibiotic production in this country goes into agriculture why on earth did somebody think putting antibiotics in agriculture was a great idea? we’ve said , hey , look , cram these animals together .
and you can make money off of that nobody was making the connection between feeding animals antibiotics and the fact that the food would be carrying drug-resistant bacteria so ellen did a study .
and she found that poultry raised with antibiotics had nine times as much drug-resistant bacteria on it .
organic agriculture lauds the use of animal manure unless you’re just a complete , ‘i’m a vegan , and i only hang out with vegans , and i eat sterilized vegetables ,’ you know , it 's very likely that you’re picking up the same bacteria resistant bacteria seep into the groundwater , fly off the back of livestock trucks and hitch a ride home on the hands of farm workers , all of which makes trying to pinpoint exactly where resistant bacteria is originating extremely difficult .
it was a dead end ### people sick , ## hospitalizations and zero access for health officials to investigate the farms .
drug-resistant bacteria is a huge problem .
five days after he started recovering , the hospital ran out of the new drug , and mr alexander died .
today , we don’t have to worry about antibiotics running out .
— want to know why a metro health department didn’t shut down a restaurant — it 's a very resistant bacteria — we really need to change the way we use antibiotics .
