last week  , a unanimous three-judge panel of a federal appeals court in manhattan ruled against mr trump .
the court , in a focused ruling , said state prosecutors may require third parties to turn over a sitting president 's financial records for use in a grand jury investigation  .
mr trump has fought vigorously to shield his financial records , and prosecutors in manhattan have agreed not to seek the tax returns until the case is resolved by the supreme court .
in exchange , they insisted on a very quick briefing schedule , one that would allow the court to announce whether it would hear the case as soon as next month and to issue a decision by june , as the presidential election enters its final stages .
other cases involving mr trump are also in the pipeline .
they involve matters as diverse as demands from house democrats for tax and business records , a request for access to redacted portions of the report prepared by robert s .
mueller iii , the special counsel , and challenges to mr trump 's business arrangements under the constitution 's emoluments clauses .
on wednesday , the full united states court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit refused to rehear a ruling from a divided three-judge panel that mr trump 's accounting firm must comply with the house oversight and reform committee 's demands for eight years of his financial records .
a lawyer for mr trump said he would appeal that ruling to the supreme court , too .
the legal fight in the new york case began in late august after prosecutors in the office of the manhattan district attorney , cyrus r .
vance jr .
 , a democrat , subpoenaed mr trump 's accounting firm , mazars usa  , for his tax returns and those of his family business dating to #### .
in thursday 's filing , mr trump 's lawyers called that move unprecedented .
for the first time in our nation 's history , they wrote , a state or local prosecutor has launched a criminal investigation of the president of the united states and subjected him to coercive criminal process .
the petition said the subpoena was politically motivated and sought information that was not relevant to any legitimate criminal inquiry .
